---
authors:
  - brad-czerniak
#categories: ["one", "two"]
#date: 2020-03-03 02:02:02
#hero_classes: "background-color--main-dark color--white"
meta:
  description: "Write enough to get your point across, but no more."
  #  image:
  #    alt: "Default social image" # It's okay for this to be empty if the image is decorative
  #    src: required/meta-image--default.jpg
  robots: "noindex,follow"
#  title: "Overrides the tab title and social titles"
#permalink: docs/path/page-title/
#published: true
#tags: ["three", "four"]
title: "Be concise"
---

To keep content understandable, concise, and relevant, it should be:

- Specific
- Informative
- Clear and concise
- Brisk but not terse
- Incisive (friendliness can lead to a lack of precision and unnecessary words) but human (not something generated by
  a faceless machine)
- Serious but not pompous or emotionless—adjectives can be subjective and make the text sound more emotive and like spin

You should:

- Use contractions (such as _can’t_ and _won’t_)
- Not let caveats dictate unwieldy grammar (for example, say _You can_ rather than _You may be able to_)
- Use the language people are using
- Use [Google Trends](https://www.google.com/trends) to check for common search terms
- Use short sentences
- Check sentences with more than 25 words to see if you can split them for clarity

Words ending in _–ion_ and _-ment_ tend to make sentences longer and more complicated than necessary. Avoid turning verbs
into nouns, a common sign of jargon.

## Keep sentences short and sweet

Craft sentences at 25 words or fewer, whenever possible. If a sentence has fewer than 14 words, [readers understand 90 percent of content](http://comprehension.prsa.org/?p=217). At 25 words, sentences are markedly more difficult to comprehend.

We also recommend varying sentence length. Switching things up helps you keep readers interested. This tactic will also
give you better control of your content’s tone — a text with only short sentences can unintentionally sound terse. The
occasional longer sentence adds a bit of narrative interest (and can help a piece of writing sound friendlier, too).

Here’s an example of how you might transform a too-long sentence into something more manageable. Instead of:

> Due to privacy and logistical considerations, passes cannot be replaced if lost or stolen; a new Paper Voucher must be
> accessed by going to the [everykidinapark.gov](https://everykidinapark.gov/) website and completing the same activities
> to obtain a new Paper Voucher.

Use:

> Unfortunately, we can’t replace lost or stolen passes. Get a new pass by visiting [everykidinapark.gov](https://everykidinapark.gov/)
> and signing up again.
